16 after the hour here's Meredith mad
thanks it could be a huge medical
breakthrough researchers say that
they've discovered stem cells in a new
place NBC's chief medical editor dr.
Nancy Snyderman is here with more Nancy
good morning to you hi Meredith this is
big story it broke yesterday and we want
to talk about stem cells because they
have been touted as a possible cure for
a lot of the world's most serious
diseases but there have also been
ethical mine fields surrounding this
because in the past most promising self
cell lines have come from unused human
embryos and critics have said that
that's destroying a life now the new
breakthrough today that might end the
controversy scientists at Wake Forest
and Harvard University's have discovered
a new source of stem cells we have
isolated a stem cell population that has
properties of both human and brawny stem
cells as well as adult stem cells cells
not from the embryo they're from
amniotic fluid and placentas that
nourish babies in the womb dr. Anthony
Atala leads the study that began seven
years ago they grow just as rapidly as
human veronic stem cells and without
using any special condition so they're
actually easier to grow and they are
easier to obtain these stem cells can be
taken from the amniotic fluid during
pregnancy or from the placenta at birth
which is usually discarded one would
need a back to approximately 100,000
specimens to be able to supply 99
percent of the US population with a
perfect genetic match
transplantation and doctors hope the
discovery could lead to new treatments
for Parkinson's Alzheimer's spinal cord
injuries even heart disease we've been
able to actually engineer a muscle
tissue bone make nerve sign implanted
dose but being able to grow tissue from
else does not mean the patients can be
treated tomorrow it's going to take
years and years for anything that comes
out of this to be turn into something
can be used in people with real diseases
the goal is to eventually create a
national bank of stem cells that could
be used by anyone what it shows is that
the science of of stem cell biology is
really only in its infancy we don't know
what the possibilities could be we
really need to work on all fronts fronts
that today make a turning point in
scientific discovery it's big news
because these these stem cells could
give us 100,000 new lines which would
take care of ninety-nine percent of the
american population and that's really
important Meredith because right now we
only have 21 lines and the other cool
thing is they followed these cells long
enough to know they don't turn into
cancers they don't turn into tumors this
looks like it's going to be very safe
technology and it sounds like we then
avoid all those ethical questions that
we have when we involve embryos in the
process yeah this is interesting women
would have to still give consent to say
yes of course use my fluid or use the
placenta but babies can still be born
healthy there's not going to be any
violation of fetuses it's fluid or
placenta so it's going to be interesting
to see how this sort of breaks down but
as for ethical charges or abortion
charges I don't see how that surrounds
this at all and then somebody married to
a man with ms I wanted answers yesterday
will I probably see them in my life too
you know what everyone is being very
cautious the scientists have really been
quite prudent about this but I think
this is going to happen quite quickly
they're going to start to grow this
they've already go nerve bone and
bladder outside of a human body and
they've done implantation I think you're
going to watch this escalate and it's
going to be good news for everybody
Nancy Snyderman thank you so much and
you'll be